First version (#1)
stackabletech/stackablectl: README.md

# stackablectl

We separate the deployed services into 3 layers:

| Layer         | Description                                                 | Examples                                      |
|---------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------|
| **Operators** | The operators needed to operate the Stackable Data Platform | `trino-operator`, `superset-operator`         |
| **Stack**     | The data products                                           | `Trino`, `Apache Superset`                    |
| **Demo**      | The demos that prepare data and run the applications        | Demo loading and analyzing New York taxi data |

![](docs/images/layers.png)

Each layer gets deployed via its dedicated `stackablectl` command

## Deploying
### Operators
Operators manage the products of the Stackable Data Platform.
This command can be used as a direct replacement of `create_test_cluster.py`.
We decided to drop dependency resolution (like the superset operator requires the commons-, secret-, druid-, trino-operator and a postgres) for the following reasons:

> 1. Image the situation "install `trino=1.2.3` and `superset`". Superset expresses a dependency on the latest trino version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Imagine the situation "install `trino=1.2.3` and `superset`". Superset expresses a dependency on the latest Trino version.
```

Now the situation gets complicated because we have conflicting version requirements for the trino-operator.
We could try to resolve this using dependency trees and other magic stuff.
2. Even more important: When you deploy the superset-operator `stackablectl` has no way to know to which data products you want integrate with.
Because of this it would need to deploy the operators for **all** the products Superset supports.

> As a result it would install like 90% of the operators by simply specifying superset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result it would install like 90% of the operators by simply specifying Superset.
```

And all of that on possible non-fixed versions.

We also don't deploy examples any more as that functionality is now provided by the stack layer below.

As an alternative we provide the possibly to provide a simple yaml file containing the list of operators needed for a particular demo, stack or integration test (more on that below).

> The yaml files simply contains a list of the operators to install (with the possibility to specify the version).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The yaml file simply contains a list of operators to install including an optional version.
```

We used the same notation (`name[=version]`) as when using the CLI for easy copy/pasting.

#### Command with arguments (meant for developers)
```bash

> stackablectl deploy-operators --operator commons --operator secret --operator trino --operator superset=0.3.0

Reviewer: This seems to be the current implementation:
```suggestion
stackablectl operator install commons secret trino superset=0.3.0
```

```

#### Command with file (meant for end-users)
A operator layer's definition looks like the following:

`demo-nytaxidata/operators.yaml`
```yaml
operators:
  - commons
  - secret
  - trino
  - superset=0.3.0
```
Call it by the directory
```bash

> stackablectl deploy-operators demo-nytaxidata/

Reviewer: Not very important, but more a question of ergonomics or user expectation: wouldn't it be better to require a flag for the directory ? Like `kubectl` does with `-f` ? Also being able to read from `stdin` would make integration in shell pipelines easier and copy&pasting from the docs faster for users.

```
Or directly from GitHub
```bash
stackablectl deploy-operators https://raw.githubusercontent.com/stackabletech/demos/main/demo-nytaxidata/
```

### Stack

> The Stack contains all the third party (data) products we are offering.
> Third party products like MinIO, Prometheus and Grafana are also included here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Stack contains data products that are managed by Stackable operators. Additional products like MinIO, Prometheus and Grafana can also included.
```
